Add VSCode debug steps for STM32L475 (#92)
Azure-Samples/iot-middleware-freertos-samples: demos/projects/ST/b-l475e-iot01a/VSCodeDebug.md

# Debug a STMicroelectronics B-L475E-IOT01A Discovery kit using VS Code

## What you need

> * Have successfully run the sample for ST Microelectronics DevKit: [B-L475E-IOT01A](https://www.st.com/en/evaluation-tools/b-l475e-iot01a.html)

Reviewer: >run [](http://example.com/codeflow?start=20&length=3)

Build the sample ?

Author: ok!

> * Make sure you run this command on Git: As **administrator** run `git config --system core.longpaths true`

Reviewer 2: Should this go before the build step since the build will generate long paths?
```suggestion
* Make sure to run this git command before building and cloning:

 ```powershell
 # As **administrator** 
 git config --system core.longpaths true
 ```
```

Reviewer 2: If this indeed is only for Windows this is fine. Otherwise I don't believe Linux needs this so maybe call out for windows

## Prerequisites

* Install the [Cortex-Debug extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=marus25.cortex-debug) on VS Code

![VSCode Cortex Debug](media/cortex-debug.png)

* Install OpenOCD

>     * Get Open OCD pre-built for Windows [here](https://gnutoolchains.com/arm-eabi/openocd/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Get OpenOCD pre-built for Windows [here](https://gnutoolchains.com/arm-eabi/openocd/).
```

>     * Don't forget to add the folder Bin/openocd.exe to PATH

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Don't forget to add the folder `bin/openocd.exe` to PATH
```

    
* Install ST Link driver

>     * If you don’t have it yet, update drivers for the ST link board: en.stsw-link009 (download from [ST Micro page](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stsw-link009.html))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * If you don’t have it yet, update drivers for the ST link board: en.stsw-link009 (download from the [ST Micro page](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stsw-link009.html))
```

>     * How can I tell if I need it? Connect your STM32L475 device to the PC and open the device manager. You should be able to see the ST-Link Debug under USBs. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * If you are unsure whether you have the updated drivers, connect your STM32L475 device to the PC and open the device manager. You should be able to see the ST-Link Debug under USBs.
```

> c.	If you can’t see it, download, and update the drivers.

Reviewer: >.	 [](http://example.com/codeflow?start=1&length=2)

nit remove this tab

Author: done.

> * [Windows users] For the next step, note that in several cases, script execution is restricted by default for security reasons. If you can't run the next step, run PowerShell as Administrator and set the execution policy:

Reviewer 2: "next step" here is the debugger? nit here is to be more specific what needs this I'm not sure reading this.

Author: adjusted. thank you!

    ```powershell
    Set-ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted
    ```

    In this case, don't forget to move the security settings back once you complete the setup:

    ```powershell
    Set-ExecutionPolicy Restricted
    ```

> * It might be needed to restart VS Code so the terminal can recognie any changes to PATH before proceeding to the next steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You might need to restart VS Code so the terminal can recognize any changes to the PATH before proceeding to the next steps.
```

## Running the Debugger

* On VSCode:
    * Click the Run and Debug icon (or CTRL+SHIFT+D) as indicated in the illustration below by arrow #1

>     * On the DropDown menu, shown in the illustration below by the arrow #2, select STM475E: Local OpenOCD.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * On the drop-down menu, shown in the illustration below by the arrow #2, select `STM L475E: Local OpenOCD`.
```

    * Click Start Debugging (or F5), shown in the illustration below by the arrow #3.

![VSCode Cortex Debug](media/VSCode.png)

* Debug session will be initialized and it should pause at the breakpoint as expected.

![VSCode Cortex Debug](media/VSCode-Debug.png)

> * Feel free to explore the [Cortex-Debug extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=marus25.cortex-debug) and its documentation. 

Reviewer: add newline

Author: ok

# Debug an STMicroelectronics B-L475E-IOT01A Discovery kit using VS Code

## What you need

> * Successfully build the sample for the ST Microelectronics DevKit: [B-L475E-IOT01A](https://www.st.com/en/evaluation-tools/b-l475e-iot01a.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Successfully build the sample for the ST Microelectronics DevKit: [B-L475E-IOT01A](https://www.st.com/en/evaluation-tools/b-l475e-iot01a.html).
```

* Make sure to run this git command before building and cloning:

 ```powershell
 # As **administrator** 
 git config --system core.longpaths true
```

## Prerequisites

> * Install the [Cortex-Debug extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=marus25.cortex-debug) on VS Code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Install the [Cortex-Debug extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=marus25.cortex-debug) on VS Code.
```

![VSCode Cortex Debug](media/cortex-debug.png)

* Install OpenOCD
    * Get OpenOCD pre-built for Windows [here](https://gnutoolchains.com/arm-eabi/openocd/).

>     * Don't forget to add the folder `bin/openocd.exe` to PATH

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Don't forget to add the folder `bin/openocd.exe` to PATH.
```

    
* Install ST Link driver

>     * If you don’t have it yet, update drivers for the ST link board: en.stsw-link009 (download from the [ST Micro page](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stsw-link009.html))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * If you don’t have it yet, update drivers for the ST link board: en.stsw-link009 (download from the [ST Micro page](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stsw-link009.html)).
```

    * If you are unsure whether you have the updated drivers, connect your STM32L475 device to the PC and open the device manager. You should be able to see the ST-Link Debug under USBs.
    * If you can’t see it, download, and update the drivers.

* You might need to restart VS Code so the terminal can recognize any changes to the PATH before proceeding to the next steps.

## Running the Debugger

> * [Windows users] The next step, will require execution of Power Shell scripts to get your device setup for debugging. Normally, script execution is restricted by default. If you can't run the next step, run PowerShell as Administrator and set the execution policy:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Windows users] The next step will require execution of Power Shell scripts to get your device setup for debugging. Normally, script execution is restricted by default. If you can't run the next step, run PowerShell as Administrator and set the execution policy:
```
